hello and welcome to first day first
show
I'm out of ammo Chopra two big films
arrived at the multiplex this weekend
but stop my review of Bombay velvet
why you must borrow dollar again because
it's seen as a lavake it don't see that
Bombay velvet which is set in the 1950s
and 60s draws upon Princeton historian
John Prakash spoke Mumbai fables and
journalist and author Naresh Fernandez's
writings on Mumbai's Jazz Age director
Anurag Kashyap and his Co writers which
include Prakash and director vos and
Bala Lear this with references to James
Cagney and American gangster films of
the 1930s film noir films like LA
Confidential and Chinatown which tell
the backstories of cities and of course
Mumbai's own colorful history so
prohibition tabloid Wars real estate
scams the creation of Nariman Point are
threaded into the plot Mumbai like most
great cities in the world is built on
corpses and corruption at the centre of
this tangled web is the love story of
Johnny Balraj played by Ranbir Kapoor
and Rosina Rona played by Anushka Sharma
he is the straight tough she is a
nightclub singer both have been damaged
by abusive childhoods he more than
anything wants to be a big-shot she just
wants to be loved this is not a story
that can end happily ever after but
while it lasts it soars to emit travail
these incredible Hindi jazz song
Bombay velvet is admirably ambitious its
visually sumptuous narratively dense and
through baby's soundtrack is an instant
classic sleepy moments voices absolute
magic as a sort of silence details said
design and the haricot the same time I
pop in costumes but don't go looking for
historical authenticity this is a
heavily stylized recreation Mumbai
becomes a city of trams decadent
nightclubs and sinister men wearing for
daughter tommy guns and street fighters
more a part of Anurag's imagination than
mumbai reality wants to play a starring
role Ranbir Kapoor is superb as the
volatile desperate dangerous Jonny
Anushka is compellingly tragic and the
surprise here is Karan Johar as the
scheming lasting business man cries odd
Khambatta
he got some of the level of menace the
role required but he's stylish Lee nasty
last week when I interviewed the team of
Bombay velvet come on George describe
director Anurag Kashyap as a mess a
gloriousness
he could have been talking about the
film possibly our glorious but it's also
undeniably a mess all the skill on
display can't camouflage the disjointed
choppy screenplay the narrative moves so
abruptly that none of the characters are
given time to develop we don't get a
chance to know them their dreams and
disappointments don't know us there's
almost too much plot and yet Bombay
velvet isn't gripping key plot points
pop up and then randomly disappear a
post interval twist is so convoluted and
yet simplistic that it completely throws
you the climactic sequence has power and
poetry but it feels like too little too
late
Bombay velvet had the potential to be
the definitive Mumbai the wall there's
enough talent here for 10 firms the crew
includes directors like Vikramaditya
Motwane and the gospel hell was
co-produced the film
and Martin Scorsese's legendary editor
Thelma Schoonmaker there's also real
passion and sweat but alas the center
does not hold should you see it
I can't strongly recommend this film but
Anurag Kashyap
is one of Bollywood's most interesting
directors so even his missteps are worth
your time my rating two-and-a-half stars